Most Holy Father,

I am writing to request dispensation from my vows in the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. I believe that I am being called to the single life, and that it is as a single person in the world that I can best love and serve others.

I am grateful for my time in Holy Cross, which has afforded me the opportunity to engage in a variety of work on behalf of the Congregation. I have worked in young adult ministry for the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, taught Political Science at Holy Cross College (Notre Dame, IN), tutored high school students at a youth center in Los Angeles, interned at Jubilee USA Network (Washington, D.C.), taught mathematics at Holy Cross Lakeview Senior Secondary School and social sciences at the Philosophy Centre Jinja in Uganda, and served as a member of the Political Science faculty at Saint Mary’s College (Notre Dame, IN). Within the Congregation, I have also assisted with vocation ministry, served on the Congregation's Justice and Stewardship committees, and been a delegate to the 2014 General Chapter.

Still, I find that I am not able to live religious life happily without the support of a larger number of congregational peers of my own culture and approximate age. I have participated actively in numerous congregational programs meant to bring Sisters from around the world together, so that they can get to know and support one another. These have included international formation gatherings, a tertian program, and a leadership development program. I have also been a member of the Congregation's Justice and Stewardship Committees, both of which are international, and I have lived with Sisters from other countries, both in Uganda and in the United States. These experiences have provided the opportunity to get to know Sisters in my approximate age group from around the world. I appreciate the relationships these opportunities have made possible, but they do not provide the peer support I need.

Coming to the decision to request dispensation has been difficult, because I take commitments very seriously. It took two years of prayer and discernment for me to reach the decision even to request exclaustration. My discernment of the request for exclaustration and this request for dispensation has been the focus of three eight-day retreats, two of them with a Jesuit director who has directed me on many occasions over the last several years. I have also been discerning this request with my regular spiritual director, and have sought the counsel of others who know me well.

When I entered the Congregation, there were a few Sisters who served abroad for most of their lives, but most served in their home countries. I entered with the expectation and understanding that while I would have some international experience, I would live and serve in the United States.

At that time, there were other women in Holy Cross from the United States who were close to my age. Though I was never under any illusion that there would be *large* numbers of Sisters of my own culture and approximate age, my early experience of the Congregation gave me reason to think there would be *some*.

The situation I now experience is vastly different. Only three Sisters from the United States are under the age of sixty; none are under forty. There is no one from the U.S. in formation, nor is there interest in Holy Cross on the part of younger American women. Holy Cross's new life is outside the United States. I am pleased that there is a bright future for the Congregation, but I do not see a place for myself in that future.

One of the most important things I have learned in my time in Holy Cross is to listen to my heart. In my early years in the Congregation, I was sometimes asked whether the small number of women from the U.S. near my age concerned me. My response was that I did not expect a large number of new entrants, but I thought there would be a few, and I did not think the small number should matter.

Though I honestly believed that, concerns about the Congregation’s demographics, and whether I would find the support I needed to live religious life well, tugged at my heart. I recall giving voice to these concerns to another Sister a year before I made perpetual vows. At the time, I thought that I was remaining firm in my commitment and avoiding giving in to fear by moving ahead with profession despite my concerns. I now believe I should have paid more attention to the misgivings of my heart. 

Having lived and served for twenty months in Uganda, I know from first-hand experience that I am not called to live outside my home country. Living outside the United States — where I might find peers of my age, if not my culture — holds no attraction for me.

Living as a single person, however, *does* attract. I lived alone for approximately thirty months prior to requesting exclaustration, and I found that living singly suits me well. My time in exclaustration has given me the opportunity to further test the call to single life.

As I’ve continued my discernment during exclaustration, I have paid close attention to my experience and to the stirrings of my heart. I have been able to support myself financially without difficulty. More importantly, emotionally and spiritually, I’ve found myself content, happy, and at peace. Since beginning exclaustration, I am less anxious and more hopeful than I was previously. Others have also noticed that I am more at peace than I have been in some time; my spiritual director, friends, family, and colleagues have all commented on it.

As I look to the future, I realize that it is uncertain. As I have discerned my choice, I have often tried to imagine a future in which I return to active membership in the Congregation, and a future in which I seek dispensation from my vows to live as a single person.

When I look to that uncertain future and picture myself remaining within the Congregation, I experience a sense of uncertainty and of dread. My emotions are in turmoil when I consider this alternative.

When I picture myself in that uncertain future as a single person, however, I experience a sense of genuine freedom and possibility. There is a persistent hopefulness as I contemplate this choice that is not present when I contemplate a return to active membership in the Congregation. When I consider moving forward as a single person, I experience a sense of peace, which I interpret as confirmation that my decision to seek dispensation, though difficult, is the correct decision.

I humbly beseech the blessing of Your Holiness,
<!-- Signature -->